# T1059.012 - Command and Scripting Interpreter: Hypervisor CLI

**Tactic:** Execution
**Platforms:** ESXi
**Reference:** https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/012

## Description

Adversaries may abuse hypervisor command line interpreters (CLIs) to execute malicious commands. Hypervisor CLIs typically enable a wide variety of functionality for managing both the hypervisor itself and the guest virtual machines it hosts. 

For example, on ESXi systems, tools such as `esxcli` and `vim-cmd` allow administrators to configure firewall rules and log forwarding on the hypervisor, list virtual machines, start and stop virtual machines, and more. Adversaries may be able to leverage these tools in order to support further actions, such as File and Directory Discovery or Data Encrypted for Impact.

## Detection

### Detection Analytics

**Analytic 1537**

Detects suspicious use of ESXi native CLI tools like esxcli and vim-cmd by unauthorized users or outside expected maintenance windows. Focus is on actions such as stopping VMs, reconfiguring network/firewall settings, and enabling SSH or logging.


## Mitigations

_No mitigations documented._

## Targeted Assets

_No specific assets identified._

## Malware / Tools That Use This Technique

### S1096 - Cheerscrypt

Cheerscrypt has leveraged `esxcli` in order to terminate running virtual machines.

### S1073 - Royal

Royal ransomware uses `esxcli` to gather a list of running VMs and terminate them.

### S1218 - VIRTUALPIE

VIRTUALPIE is capable of command line execution on compromised ESXi servers.

## Threat Groups

_No threat groups documented._

## Campaigns

_No campaigns documented._
