# T1055.012 - Process Injection: Process Hollowing

**Tactic:** Defense Evasion, Privilege Escalation
**Platforms:** Windows
**Reference:** https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055/012

## Description

Adversaries may inject malicious code into suspended and hollowed processes in order to evade process-based defenses. Process hollowing is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process.  

Process hollowing is commonly performed by creating a process in a suspended state then unmapping/hollowing its memory, which can then be replaced with malicious code. A victim process can be created with native Windows API calls such as <code>CreateProcess</code>, which includes a flag to suspend the processes primary thread. At this point the process can be unmapped using APIs calls such as <code>ZwUnmapViewOfSection</code> or <code>NtUnmapViewOfSection</code>  before being written to, realigned to the injected code, and resumed via <code>VirtualAllocEx</code>, <code>WriteProcessMemory</code>, <code>SetThreadContext</code>, then <code>ResumeThread</code> respectively.

This is very similar to Thread Local Storage but creates a new process rather than targeting an existing process. This behavior will likely not result in elevated privileges since the injected process was spawned from (and thus inherits the security context) of the injecting process. However, execution via process hollowing may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

## Detection

### Detection Analytics

**Analytic 1076**

Detects adversary use of suspended process creation, using the CREATE_SUSPENDED flag via CreateProcess, followed by unmapping the memory of the child process (NtUnmapViewOfSection) and replacing it with malicious code via VirtualAllocEx/WriteProcessMemory, then SetThreadContext and ResumeThread to begin execution within the hollowed process.


## Mitigations

### M1040 - Behavior Prevention on Endpoint

Some endpoint security solutions can be configured to block some types of process injection based on common sequences of behavior that occur during the injection process.

## Targeted Assets

_No specific assets identified._

## Malware / Tools That Use This Technique

### S0331 - Agent Tesla

Agent Tesla has used process hollowing to create and manipulate processes through sections of unmapped memory by reallocating that space with its malicious code.

### S0373 - Astaroth

Astaroth can create a new process in a suspended state from a targeted legitimate process in order to unmap its memory and replace it with malicious code.

### S0344 - Azorult

Azorult can decrypt the payload into memory, create a new suspended process of itself, then inject a decrypted payload to the new process and resume new process execution.

### S0128 - BADNEWS

BADNEWS has a command to download an .exe and use process hollowing to inject it into a new process.

### S0127 - BBSRAT

BBSRAT has been seen loaded into msiexec.exe through process hollowing to hide its execution.

### S0234 - Bandook

Bandook has been launched by starting iexplore.exe and replacing it with Bandook's payload.

### S0534 - Bazar

Bazar can inject into a target process including Svchost, Explorer, and cmd using process hollowing.

### S0660 - Clambling

Clambling can execute binaries through process hollowing.

### S0154 - Cobalt Strike

Cobalt Strike can use process hollowing for execution.

### S1111 - DarkGate

DarkGate leverages process hollowing techniques to evade detection, such as decrypting the content of an encrypted PE file and injecting it into the process vbc.exe.

### S0354 - Denis

Denis performed process hollowing through the API calls CreateRemoteThread, ResumeThread, and Wow64SetThreadContext.

### S0567 - Dtrack

Dtrack has used process hollowing shellcode to target a predefined list of processes from <code>%SYSTEM32%</code>.

### S0038 - Duqu

Duqu is capable of loading executable code via process hollowing.

### S0367 - Emotet

Emotet uses a copy of `certutil.exe` stored in a temporary directory for process hollowing, starting the program in a suspended state before loading malicious code.

### S1138 - Gootloader

Gootloader can inject its Delphi executable into ImagingDevices.exe using a process hollowing technique.

### S0189 - ISMInjector

ISMInjector hollows out a newly created process RegASM.exe and injects its payload into the hollowed process.

### S0483 - IcedID

IcedID can inject a Cobalt Strike beacon into cmd.exe via process hallowing.

### S0447 - Lokibot

Lokibot has used process hollowing to inject itself into legitimate Windows process.

### S1213 - Lumma Stealer

Lumma Stealer has used process hollowing leveraging a legitimate program such as “BitLockerToGo.exe” to inject a malicious payload.

### S0198 - NETWIRE

The NETWIRE payload has been injected into benign Microsoft executables via process hollowing.

### S0229 - Orz

Some Orz versions have an embedded DLL known as MockDll that uses process hollowing and Regsvr32 to execute another payload.

### S0650 - QakBot

QakBot can use process hollowing to execute its main payload.

### S0662 - RCSession

RCSession can launch itself from a hollowed svchost.exe process.

### S1130 - Raspberry Robin

Raspberry Robin will execute a legitimate process, then suspend it to inject code for a Tor client into the process, followed by resumption of the process to enable Tor client execution.

### S1018 - Saint Bot

The Saint Bot loader has used API calls to spawn `MSBuild.exe` in a suspended state before injecting the decrypted Saint Bot binary into it.

### S0226 - Smoke Loader

Smoke Loader spawns a new copy of c:\windows\syswow64\explorer.exe and then replaces the executable code in memory with malware.

### S1086 - Snip3

Snip3 can use RunPE to execute malicious payloads within a hollowed Windows process.

### S0266 - TrickBot

TrickBot injects into the svchost.exe process.

### S0386 - Ursnif

Ursnif has used process hollowing to inject into child processes.

### S0689 - WhisperGate

WhisperGate has the ability to inject its fourth stage into a suspended process created by the legitimate Windows utility `InstallUtil.exe`.

### S1065 - Woody RAT

Woody RAT can create a suspended notepad process and write shellcode to delete a file into the suspended process using `NtWriteVirtualMemory`.

### S1207 - XLoader

XLoader uses process hollowing by injecting itself into the `explorer.exe` process and other files ithin the Windows `SysWOW64` directory.

## Threat Groups

_No threat groups documented._

## Campaigns

_No campaigns documented._
