# T1546.017 - Event Triggered Execution: Udev Rules

**Tactic:** Persistence, Privilege Escalation
**Platforms:** Linux
**Reference:** https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1546/017

## Description

Adversaries may maintain persistence through executing malicious content triggered using udev rules. Udev is the Linux kernel device manager that dynamically manages device nodes, handles access to pseudo-device files in the `/dev` directory, and responds to hardware events, such as when external devices like hard drives or keyboards are plugged in or removed. Udev uses rule files with `match keys` to specify the conditions a hardware event must meet and `action keys` to define the actions that should follow. Root permissions are required to create, modify, or delete rule files located in `/etc/udev/rules.d/`, `/run/udev/rules.d/`, `/usr/lib/udev/rules.d/`, `/usr/local/lib/udev/rules.d/`, and `/lib/udev/rules.d/`. Rule priority is determined by both directory and by the digit prefix in the rule filename.

Adversaries may abuse the udev subsystem by adding or modifying rules in udev rule files to execute malicious content. For example, an adversary may configure a rule to execute their binary each time the pseudo-device file, such as `/dev/random`, is accessed by an application. Although udev is limited to running short tasks and is restricted by systemd-udevd's sandbox (blocking network and filesystem access), attackers may use scripting commands under the action key `RUN+=` to detach and run the malicious content’s process in the background to bypass these controls.

## Detection

### Detection Analytics

**Analytic 1056**

Monitor for creation or modification of udev rules files in key directories (/etc/udev/rules.d/, /lib/udev/rules.d/, /usr/lib/udev/rules.d/). Look for RUN+= or IMPORT keys invoking suspicious binaries or scripts. Correlate this with process execution from systemd-udevd context, and file writes near udev reload/restart events. Combine this with unexpected background process spawning from udevd-related forks.


## Mitigations

_No mitigations documented._

## Targeted Assets

_No specific assets identified._

## Malware / Tools That Use This Technique

### S1219 - REPTILE

REPTILE has used udev for persistence.

## Threat Groups

_No threat groups documented._

## Campaigns

_No campaigns documented._
