# T1547.012 - Boot or Logon Autostart Execution: Print Processors

**Tactic:** Persistence, Privilege Escalation
**Platforms:** Windows
**Reference:** https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1547/012

## Description

Adversaries may abuse print processors to run malicious DLLs during system boot for persistence and/or privilege escalation. Print processors are DLLs that are loaded by the print spooler service, `spoolsv.exe`, during boot.

Adversaries may abuse the print spooler service by adding print processors that load malicious DLLs at startup. A print processor can be installed through the <code>AddPrintProcessor</code> API call with an account that has <code>SeLoadDriverPrivilege</code> enabled. Alternatively, a print processor can be registered to the print spooler service by adding the <code>HKLM\SYSTEM\\[CurrentControlSet or ControlSet001]\Control\Print\Environments\\[Windows architecture: e.g., Windows x64]\Print Processors\\[user defined]\Driver</code> Registry key that points to the DLL.

For the malicious print processor to be correctly installed, the payload must be located in the dedicated system print-processor directory, that can be found with the <code>GetPrintProcessorDirectory</code> API call, or referenced via a relative path from this directory. After the print processors are installed, the print spooler service, which starts during boot, must be restarted in order for them to run.

The print spooler service runs under SYSTEM level permissions, therefore print processors installed by an adversary may run under elevated privileges.

## Detection

### Detection Analytics

**Analytic 0074**

Correlated registry modifications under Print Processors path, followed by DLL file creation within the system print processor directory, and DLL load by spoolsv.exe. Malicious execution often occurs during service restart or system boot, with SYSTEM-level privileges.


## Mitigations

### M1018 - User Account Management

Limit user accounts that can load or unload device drivers by disabling <code>SeLoadDriverPrivilege</code>.

## Targeted Assets

_No specific assets identified._

## Malware / Tools That Use This Technique

### S0666 - Gelsemium

Gelsemium can drop itself in <code>C:\Windows\System32\spool\prtprocs\x64\winprint.dll</code> to be loaded automatically by the spoolsv Windows service.

### S0501 - PipeMon

The PipeMon installer has modified the Registry key <code>HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Print\Environments\Windows x64\Print Processors</code> to install PipeMon as a Print Processor.

## Threat Groups

_No threat groups documented._

## Campaigns

_No campaigns documented._
